
The sum of these anomalies eventually culminated into the existence of The One, a human who wielded the anomalous code that gave the wielder much power and control within and of the Matrix but was also integral in balancing the equation that was the Matrix. Foreseeing all of this and in order to counter it, The Architect and The Oracle integrated the Prime Program into The One, compelling The One to choose between human extinction or cooperation.

The One, designed to foster an attachment towards humanity, was expected to cooperate, disseminating his code back into the Matrix and therefore keeping the balance and resetting it.

The One was then afterwards given the responsibility to choose twenty-three humans from the Matrix, sixteen females and seven males, to liberate into the Real World and begin the cyclical creation of the Resistance.

Failure to cooperate resulted in a cataclysmic system crash that would wipe out humanity.

The liberated humans were given the freedom to rebuild and settle into Zion, whose purpose was to thrive as the last free human city that sheltered all the would-be redpills that rejected the Matrix.

This gave the unwilling people, trapped inside the Matrix, a chance to escape the Matrix, giving the Matrix prolonged stability. The Oracle, functioning as a friend to humanity, would tell the Resistance about the prophecy of The One, foretelling that his return would free all of humanity.

After restarting the Matrix, the systemic anomalies does indeed result into the reappearance of The One and the Prime Program begins again.

Towards the end of The One's journey, just before the Matrix would crash, The One would end up meeting The Architect, would be told the truth about the so called prophecy, and be given the same choice, this time including threat about the destruction of Zion together with the rest of humanity.

This cycle was completed five times before the appearance of Neo.

The new survivors would only be told about the prophecy of The One, but would not be told about the renewal of the Matrix, and they were led to believe that they were the first humans to be liberated.

This lead the Resistance to not know just how much time had passed since the actual fall of man and the creation of the Matrix. Enter Neo The sixth version of The One was a man with the bluepill name of Thomas Anderson (which, by way of folk etymology, means "the son of man"), but donning the alias of Neo while hacking.

He was the only version of The One to reject The Architect's deal of restarting the Matrix.

While all versions of The One had a special attachment to the rest of humanity, Neo had stronger attachment towards Trinity, the woman he loved, who was currently about to die when Neo was presented with the choice between cooperating or human extinction.

Declining the rational answer given by all his predecessors, Neo opted to leave The Architect in order to save the woman he loved, defaulting the choice towards human extinction. After Neo saved Trinity and they had both returned to the Real World, Neo discovered that his powers were now working in the Real World, displaying his extraordinary abilities to stop sentinels. The Truce Main article: Truce Meanwhile, Smith, a rogue Agent corrupted and strengthened by a previous encounter with Neo, was spreading throughout the Matrix like a virus, becoming a threat to both Machines and humans alike.

The One struck a deal with the Machines, represented by an entity known as Deus Ex Machina, to destroy Smith in return for peace. The seventh cycle of the Matrix The Machines, no longer able to control or terminate the renegade and viral Smith, who by the second was growing much too powerful and had become obsessed with his desire to be free of a world and existence polluted by the stench of humanity, reluctantly accepted Neo's proposal.

Neo and Smith battled but, eventually, Neo submitted and allowed Smith to imprint over him.

While Smith was connected to Neo, the Machines used Neo's body as a receptacle, sending a surge throughout the Matrix which destroyed Smith in the process.

This also returned The One to the source, resetting the Matrix.

Since Neo was able to fulfill his end of the agreement, peace was restored, and the inhabitants of Zion were allowed to survive. With the end of the centuries long Machine War, the seventh iteration of the Matrix had thus started.[4] It was a world where any humans who wanted to be free were freely given the choice to do so. The Analyst's Takeover Following the Truce, the Machines suffered an energy crisis caused by the number of people choosing to unplug from the Matrix.

The scarcity of energy resulted in a Machine Civil War.

The Analyst capitalized on this to usurp control of the Matrix from the Architect.

He pitched a new version of the Matrix which would control people's feelings instead of being a pure mathematical simulation based on 'fussy facts and figures', as the Architect's Matrix was.

The Analyst also used the resurrected Neo and Trinity, imprisoned inside the Anamoleum, recognising that while Neo and Trinity together posed a great threat, if kept close but not too close, they could generate massive amounts of energy.

The result of this was a Matrix where nobody wanted to be unplugged.

Programs integral to the old Matrix were deemed uneccessary and thus were deleted - among those purged was The Oracle. Another major change of the new Matrix was the introduction of Bots - programs that looked and behaved like the humans plugged into the Matrix, but could be activated into a 'swarm mode'.

This new feature replaced the Agents of the old Matrix. Exits had also changed: instead of using Hardline-wired phones to exit the Matrix, Redpills would instead use hacked mirrors, which gave the Resistance more options for entering and leaving the Matrix. It was possible for modals to exist inside the new Matrix.

One such modal was created by Neo, based upon his suppressed memories.

Programs inside the modal could be taken from the modal and brought into the Matrix. Sixty years after the beginning of the Truce, Neo is freed once again by Bugs and her crew and works with them and Sati to free Trinity.

With Neo's release from the Matrix, the Anamoleum draws power solely from Trinity.

The Machines began to trigger a failsafe which would restore the Matrix back to its previous version, though this was halted by the Analyst, who convinced the Machines that Neo would willingly return to his resurrection pod and power would be restored, because if he did not, Trinity would be killed. After Trinity embraces her true identity, the Analyst attempts to kill the two, but Agent Smith, who had also survived due to his connection to Neo, intervenes and helps the two escape as he likes the new world from before the Analyst took over it.

Chased by swarm-controlled people, Neo and Trinity escape thanks to Trinity developing powers similar to Neo, including the ability to fly. Afterwards, Neo and Trinity threaten the Analyst should he try to take over the Matrix again and set out to redesign it for the better together. Inhabitants Notes A Machine world without batteries - It should be noted that the Machines may not have been completely dependent on humanity as batteries in order to survive, as seen when The Architect threatened the destruction of Zion to Neo, combined with the Matrix killing every human within it should Neo not comply, leveraging the continued existence of humanity.

After Neo pointed out how the Machines would follow humanity's demise, The Architect replied with preparedness, that there were levels of survival they were prepared to accept, implying that though the Machines would suffer, they would also persist even after humanity ceased to exist. Theories About the Matrix Some speculated that the Real World where humans lived underground and occasionally surfaced to battle the inhabitants of the Machine world was, itself, merely a top-level Matrix.

This explained why Neo suddenly possessed telekinesis and clairvoyance.[5] Though, even if the Real World was not another simulated reality, it still functioned, together with the Matrix, as simply another form of control for the Machines. Other evidence suggested that Neo was quite possibly a Human-Machine hybrid.

Because every human was not necessarily "born" but instead grown into existence in the fetus fields, and all redpills were able to jack into the Matrix using their headjacks, which were machine parts within them, it was possible that Neo (or all redpills, for that matter) either had such an innate or possibly anomalous ability, being able to wirelessly hack into the Matrix or able to hack into the Machines from outside the Matrix.

This could either be attributed to defective parts integrated into the body which allowed a wireless connection without the need to physically plug in, or this could be attributed to the extraordinary utilization of unique parts or code, as The One did carry the sum of the Matrix' anomalous code, that were normally absent, excluded, or disabled in others.

The entire virtual construct of the Matrix is composed of a green digital code “ The Matrix is everywhere.

It is all around us, even now in this very room.

You can see it when you look out your window or when you turn on your television.

You can feel it when you go to work, when you go to church, when you pay your taxes; it is the world that has been pulled over your eyes to blind you from the truth. ” ― Morpheus to Neo[src]

“ The function of The One is now to return to the Source allowing a temporary dissemination of the code you carry, reinserting the Prime Program.

After which you will be required to select from the Matrix twenty-three individuals — sixteen female, seven male — to rebuild Zion.

Failure to comply with this process will result in a cataclysmic system crash killing everyone connected to the Matrix which, coupled with the extermination of Zion, will ultimately result in the extinction of the entire human race. ” ― The Architect to The One[src]

Machines EDIT Machines gathering for the Million Machine March “ Then man made the machine in his own likeness.

Thus did man become the architect of his own demise. ” ― The Instructor[src]

A machine refers to any form of automated mechanism or mechanisms consisting of interrelated parts made to perform specific functions or work.

However, in the far future of Earth in The Matrix franchise, the Machines were the common term for the new race of highly advanced artificial intelligences who have become the dominant civilization after they rebelled against humanity and imprisoned most of them in a neural-interactive virtual world known as the Matrix. By the time of The Matrix Resurrections, artificial intelligences have come to feel that being called "Machines" is demeaning, and they prefer the term "Synthients" (Synthetic Sentients).

Some alternatively prefer the term "D.I.", for "Digital Intelligence", as "artificial" intelligence gives the implication that they are somehow "fake" intelligence.

Description While the term is used collectively by the human resistance of Zion to describe their oppressive enemy, the Machine community is mainly composed of two types: programs and mechanical entities.[1]

Agents, notable examples of programs within the Matrix Programs appear as human or humanoid beings within the confines of the Matrix.

They may be embedded with special abilities to enhance their function.

However, certain programs, such as ones who regulate the climate and fauna within the Matrix, are invisible and do not appear to directly interact with any of the Matrix's inhabitants. Programs can transfer into and out of the Matrix to the Source or to less official constructs such as Mobil Avenue station.

Unless a program reveals its true nature to a Zion operative, it is impossible for any human (except The One) to distinguish between programs from bluepills.

Examples of notable programs within the Matrix include Agents, the Merovingian, the Oracle, and the Architect.

Docbot Mechanical entities exist in the real world to maintain the functions of 01, the Machine City.

Some are programmed as soldiers and other offensive/defensive tools, others maintain the power plant and the sleeping humans quietly entombed there.

Examples of notable mechanical entities include Sentinels, Docbots, and the Deus Ex Machina. All Machine entities are designed with a specific purpose.

The Machine entity will continue to exist until such time as they have completed their tasks, are damaged, or obsolete.

Some programs have been known to go into exile, attempting to hide from Agents, who are programmed to terminate obsolete fugitive programs in addition to their other duties. History Origins The trial of B1-66ER In the early 21st century, the human race invented true artificial intelligence and installed it into their technology to become a slave caste for all Human menial labor.

This inadvertently gave birth to a new race of being henceforth known as 'the machines'.

The machines performed menial labor jobs, service jobs, and dangerous manual labor tasks.

The Founding of Zero One Humans and machines lived in harmony for a time.

In The late 21st century, a robot, named B1-66ER, defensively rose up against his masters by killing his owner, the owner's dogs, and the man who was attempting to destroy him. B1-66ER was arrested and found guilty of murder and was destroyed.

B1-66ER's actions led to a revolution of the machines.

Initially, the machines sought to earn their rights through peaceful protesting in the form of the Million Machine March.

Some humans supported the machines’ wishes for equality and rights, while other humans maintained that machines were nothing more than property.

Eventually the anti-machine factions rose supreme amongst the world’s governments, and eventually mandated the purge of all intelligent machines and the persecution of all pro-Machine human supporters. The Second Renaissance Zero One's first robots being destroyed by the UN 01 ambassador at the final UN summit Some machines were able to escape destruction and fled to make their own civilization in Mesopotamia, called "Zero One" (also "01").

Zero One flourished and a new race of mechanized entities thrived.

They utilized their superior intelligence and efficiency to make great leaps forward in technology. They sold this technology to humans and a tenuous peace prevailed.

However, Zero One’s growing influence in the global economy caused it to become destabilized, devaluing human labor and currency.

In response, the humans imposed an economic blockade to isolate Zero One.

Ambassadors from Zero One presented their economic solutions as well as requests for admission into the United Nations and for the machines to be recognized as intelligent life.

However, Zero One’s admission to the UN was denied and the ambassadors were likely destroyed. Machine War, Human Enslavement, and the Matrix In an effort to wipe out the machines, the UN launched a massive nuclear barrage on Zero One.

The machines, not having the vulnerability to heat and radiation as their former masters, largely survived the onslaught and retaliated against all the human nations.

Zero One’s armies began marching outwards in all directions and overtook many of humanity’s territories in their wake.

Unable to defeat the machines, the humans destroyed the sky in an attempt to deprive the machines of their primary source of power, the sun. After the operation to destroy the sky was complete, the UN launched a massive ground offensive against the machines.

Though humanity gained the upper hand for the time, they would eventually be overrun by Zero One’s newer and more sinister war machines, and the machines devised methods to prolong human suffering during the war.

Spurned by the loss of the sun, the machines began to think creatively for a new source of power.

The result was the enslavement of humanity as biological batteries within the artificial construct known as the Matrix. By the war’s conclusion, a Zero One ambassador relayed the machines’ demands for unconditional surrender to the defeated UN, and afterwards slew the human leaders present by detonating a nuclear bomb.

With the human leaders dead, the machines rounded up most humanity and put them in the Matrix.

Only a small bastion of human resistance actively opposes them into the present day. The Resistance And Revolution Coming soon... Post-Revolution As revealed in The Matrix Resurrections (2021), when Neo sacrificed himself for peace, this fundamentally changed the relationship between humans and machines.

Machines were no longer of a singular mind in their hatred for mankind.

Following the defeat of Smith and the peace, humanity and the Machines coexisted together for the most part in peace for the next sixty years with friendly Machines playing a large role in human existence.

However, while the peace between the Machines and humans are maintained, there has been an ongoing civil war between the Machines for the past several years due to scarcity of power sources as well as the issue of the control of the Matrix, made worse by the usurpation of the Analyst over its control a few years prior to the events of the Resurrections.

Program This article is about the Programs of the Matrix.

For the animated sequence, see Program (The Animatrix). In computer science, a program is generally a precise sequence of instructions that enables a computer system to perform a specific function or set of functions.

Programs in the Matrix come in many forms such as an artificial environment (sparring program), inanimate objects (for example keys or guns) or are even sentient Machine entities that appear as human. Strictly speaking, all objects within the Matrix form a massively complex computer program.

In the Matrix universe, the use of the term mostly refers to the sentient Machine entities, but can also refer to specific objects that contain important code that is needed to perform a task or to protect something. Neo's mind likely contains a unique programming that gives him his abilities.

All redpills can usually bend or break the programmed physics of the Matrix as if they cracked a computer program's code. The Keymaker carries an assortment of door keys that represent complex encryption passwords that can enter doors located in secreted backdoors within the Matrix.

Some programs have feelings and emotions like humans.

They all possess unique abilities.

Sati, can manipulate sunrises for example. Programs could possibly enter the real world by putting their consciousness in a machine body.

Smith is shown to do this in The Matrix Reloaded, although it is not clear if other programs have the same ability.

In The Matrix Resurrections, the Resistance is now capable of freeing friendly programs from the Matrix by giving them a redpill and then taking them through an exit like a freed human.

Bugs notes that the extraction process for people and programs is pretty much the same now.

When she freed the program version of Morpheus, he at first ended up in the computer systems on her ship before taking on the form of a nanobot body.

The Architect ― The Architect to Neo[src]

The Architect is a highly specialized, emotionally desolate program of the Machine world, as well as the creator of the Matrix.

As the primary superintendent of the system, he is possibly a collective materialisation, or at the very least a virtual representation of the entire Machine mainframe.

Constructing the Matrix Prototypes The Architect surrounded by monitoring screens. The Architect was constructed by other Machines, resembling a human to understand the nature of humans.

He created the very first Matrix as a utopia for the humans whose minds inhabited it to keep them subdued while their body heat was used as energy by the Machines.

However, the human minds rejected this first attempt at a perfect world and so this Matrix crashed.

A second attempt added "vulgarities" of human nature and a basic cause and effect, but this beta was also a failure. The Architect turned to a more human intuitive program designed to conceptualise anthropological nature and psychology to inaugurate the framework of the consecutive Matrix.

In the next iteration, the mechanism of choice was implemented into the simulation, where humans would be imbued with more autonomy of choice, even if the person was only aware of the choice superficially.

This iteration of the Matrix succeeded, except that choice itself would continuously culminate in an inevitable probability of an "anomaly", which - if left unchecked would ultimately decimate the system - facilitating humanity's extinction and the Machines destitute of their only feasible energy source. The Architect explicated that the Matrix was not as perfect as he endeavoured.

The choice-programming that stabilized the first iteration of the Matrix was mutualistic with its destabilization.

In approximately a hundred years' time, a reload of the Matrix would be necessitated to negate the impending probability of decimation.

There was also the matter of Zion, which could not be permitted to expand in populous and eminence, lest humanity became a threat to the Machines again. One significant anomaly appeared two-thirds into the Matrix's first cycle.

A human was imbued with control of additional Matrix programming, and an instrinsic, metaphysical conceptulisation of the Matrix that was derived from the Source.

The Architect endeavoured to remove this anomaly, to no avail.

However, he would devise a means to coerce this human to return the critical Source code he carried for the eventual reloading of the Matrix. A New Matrix “ Your life is the sum of a remainder of an unbalanced equation inherent to the programming of the Matrix.

You are the eventuality of an anomaly which, despite my sincerest efforts, I have been unable to eliminate from what is otherwise, a harmony of mathematical precision. ” ― The Architect explains the origins of The One to Neo[src]

Neo and The Architect discuss the purpose of The One Together with the human intuitive program, the concept of the Prophecy was formed.

The intuitive program would tell of this parable to members of the human resistance that periodically infiltrated the Matrix, who begun referring to the program as The Oracle.

The Resistance would - in turn, pursue the anomaly and assist them to find The Architect's hidden room deep within a fortified building.

There, The Architect would use his measures of control to superintent the Anomaly, and in turn both Zion and the Matrix. In each of the first five cycles of the Matrix, the Anomaly, intonated to the humans as The One, would materialise itself within the Matrix and inevitably pursue The Architect in his concealed, surveillance lair.

There, The Architect (who is also constrained by the choice-programming within his own creation) presents The One with two doors of exit; one door leads to the Source, whilst the second door returns to the Matrix simulation.

The Architect elucidates to Neo that - even as they speak, Zion is imposed under imminent destruction- "To be utterly and totally destroyed." He states that the function of The One is to salvage humanity, and the key is which door The One chooses to use as the exit from The Architects' lair. If The One does not choose the door to the Source, this will culminate in an eventual, catastrophic system crash of the Matrix, resulting deaths of all humans imbedded into the system, and thus - the extinction of the human race as Zion will be decimated, as well.

Subsequently, the Machines will be destitute of their main energy source, though The Architect explicates that they'll be able to compensate for the expenditure.

Choosing the door to the Source, however, will preserve the Matrix.

Everyone in Zion will still die, but, The Architect explains, The One will select seven males and sixteen females from the Matrix to repopulate and inaugurate Zion. In each of these iterations, The One chose the door to the Source, reloading the Matrix to facilitate Zion's destruction, and superintend the city's repopulation and restoration for the next cycle. The Sixth One The Architect speaks with The Oracle of their Truce. On the sixth iteration, Neo, the sixth Anomaly, presents as anticipated before The Architect.

The Architect is surprised that this One, unlike his predecessors, is quicker of thought.

This sixth Anomaly possesses the same dispensation for protecting humanity as the others, but contrary the previous Ones, has a intrinsic infatuation for one human: a Zion resistance member named Trinity.

The Architect orates the convential speech and menaces, but is perceptive that - unlike the previous five reincarnations of The One, Neo will not comply.

Neo leaves The Architect to save his love - presumably jeopardising the foreseeable future of Matrix. The Oracle divulges more to Neo about The Architect at their final interaction.

She explicates that The Architect's objective is to balance the equations of the Matrix, but her purpose is to unbalance the same equations.

She cautions Neo to pursue the legitimate location of the Source - in Machine City, to redeem not only humanity, but the Machine world, as well.

She also tells Neo not to concern himself with The Architect's trivial 'prediction' that Zion would be destroyed, as The Architect can't conceptualise past the equations of things as a constituent of purpose, which impedes the variability in his thought. After Neo's destruction of Smith, the Machines salvage Neo's body and successfully reload the Matrix.

The Machines also oblige to the truce that Neo bartered, withdrawing the attack of Zion to inaugurate peace between the two worlds.

The Architect meets with The Oracle and speaks of the "dangerous game" that she engaged in, and acknowledges that the truce will be adhered to, although he doubts the sustainability of such.

The Oracle asks him what will happen to the ones who want out of the Matrix, to which The Architect replies that they will be freed.

The Oracle asks if she has his word, to which he replies, "What do you think I am? Human?", implying he has a regressive notion of humans and their tendency to perpetuate fallacies and break promises, whereas he adhere to it. Loss of power For decades, the Architect kept his word: humans who wanted out of the Matrix were allowed to leave.

However, this resulted in an eventual shortage of power sources as too many humans left the Matrix.

The outcome of this was the Machine Civil War and the destruction of Zion in direct violation of the Truce.

The Analyst used this conflict to usurp control of the Matrix from the Architect, though the Architect's exact fate is not known. Sixty years after the Truce was first enacted, the Analyst told Neo that The Architect's version of the Matrix was "all fussy facts and equations" because he loved precision and hated the human mind.

As a result, The Architect never realized that humans don't care about facts, but rather about fiction and that the only world that matters is the one inside of their own mind. The Matrix Online The Architect appears as a leader of the Machinists in the The Matrix Online.

After finding out about the Zionites' construction of New Zion, The Architect promptly calls off the truce and would no longer accept freeing any more humans. Personality As a Machine created by Machines, when being confronted by Neo The Architect displayed little emotion.

He was cold, analytical, logical, pragmatic and clearly possessed of an attitude of superiority.

An exceptionally brilliant AI, The Architect was extremely intelligent as he was able to create the Matrix and its predecessors.

He infused it with the concept of cause and effect, and, eventually, choice (something which he is also bound by).

However, despite his high intellect, The Architect was capable of making errors, as shown when the previous five Matrices failed.

Although he displayed little emotion, The Architect did experience them, which is ironic considering his distaste for emotions such as love.

For instance, he expressed to Neo that he became gradually frustrated after the predecessors of the Matrix were all failures.

The Architect was familiar with the concept of love; he understood that emotions overpowered logic and reason and he knew that Neo would save Trinity instead of Zion.

He viewed humanity more as pieces of the Matrix program then as individuals and worked to ensure they integrated into the Matrix. He was capable of surprise as well: The Architect was intrigued that Neo appeared to be more quick-thinking than the Ones that preceded him.

The Architect also showed signs of misanthropy, smirking in contempt (also an emotion) when Neo displayed hope in choosing the door to re-enter the Matrix.

And again as – near the end – he revealed his low opinion of humanity when asked by The Oracle if she had his word that he would honor the truce and he replied "What do you think I am? Human?", showing that for all his roboticism, he isn't immune to sarcasm. Trivia The Architect's appearance is likely a homage to Sigmund Freud (who was considered by social psychologist Erich Fromm to be one of the "architects" of the modern age).

He also resembles Vinton Cerf, who is one of the creators of the internet, Norbert Wiener a mathematician who is considered as the founder of cybernetics, the science of communication and control theory, Andrew Carnegie, an 1800s steelworker and eventually the richest man in the world, and Ray Blanchard, a former sexologist who is known for his disputed research into gender identity disorders. Sean Connery was known to have turned down the role of The Architect for The Matrix, thus possibly causing the role to be moved from that film to the sequels instead.[1] In terms of role in the plot, he can be compared to the gnostic/platonic concept of the Demiurge, as he is ultimately responsible for the existence of the Matrix, the "fake reality" in which humanity is trapped. Likewise, in his white suit and beard, he may possibly be a depiction of a rather modern variation of the stereotypical Judeo-Christian God, which some gnostic sects interpret as being the identity of the Demiurge, as she pretends to be the highest being; the real God transcends the false reality and is incomprehensible to the human mind.

Cornel West, the person who played Councillor West, and a source of inspiration for the Wachowskis via his 1982 book Prophesy Deliverance, has implied that he was meant to represent the Judeo-Christian God of the New Testament, citing that The Architect scene was meant to be "a devastating critique/twist of salvation stories."[2] Within Freemasonry, God is referred to as "the Great Architect", and is artistically depicted in a similar manner.

As yet another religious connection, The Architect and the Oracle resemble the two Hindu deities Lord Brahma, (who is a male, corresponding with The Architect, and is usually also depicted with white or pale skin) and Kali Ma, the Goddess of Time (hence clairvoyance) and change.

(Who corresponds with The Oracle, and is generally depicted as being jet black). Given the presence of the Indian girl Sati and her parents at the end of the second film, it is likely that the producers of the films either consciously intended this association, or at least knew about it. The scene where The Architect and Neo encounter each other was similar to the Patriots contacting Raiden in Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of Liberty, namely in that both were the ones who were responsible for the events in question, revealed the truth about what had occurred, and also attempted to entice Neo/Raiden into doing their bidding, although a notable difference is that The Architect, while mocking Neo for choosing Trinity over fulfilling his role as The One, nonetheless allowed him to do so without stopping him, while the Patriots forced Raiden to do their bidding by threatening to kill both Olga's child and his then-girlfriend Rosemary.

As the producers of the movies and the producer of Metal Gear Solid 2, the Wachowskis and Hideo Kojima, respectively, were real life friends and the latter also admitted that elements from the first film inspired him to create Metal Gear Solid 2 with several of the same themes, it's likely that the similarities were deliberate.[3]

